langchain: dynamic system prompt w/ middleware docs (#592)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/langchain/middleware.mdx

For example, you can adjust the system prompt based on the user's expertise level:

:::python
```python
from typing import TypedDict

from langchain.agents import create_agent
from langchain.agents.middleware import DynamicSystemPromptMiddleware
from langgraph.runtime import Runtime

class Context(TypedDict):
    user_role: str

def dynamic_system_prompt(state, runtime: Runtime[Context]) -> str:
    user_role = runtime.context.get("user_role", "user")
    base_prompt = "You are a helpful assistant."

    if user_role == "expert":
        return f"{base_prompt} Provide detailed technical responses."
    elif user_role == "beginner":
        return f"{base_prompt} Explain concepts simply and avoid jargon."
    return base_prompt

agent = create_agent(
    model="openai:gpt-4o",
    tools=[web_search],
    middleware=[
        DynamicSystemPromptMiddleware(dynamic_system_prompt),
    ],
)

# Use with context
result = agent.invoke(
    {"messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Explain async programming"}]},
    {"context": {"user_role": "expert"}}
)
```
:::

:::js
```typescript

> import { createAgent } from "langchain";
> import { dynamicSystemPromptMiddleware } from "langchain/middleware";
> 
> const agent = createAgent({
>     model: "openai:gpt-4o",
>     tools: [weatherTool, calculatorTool],
>     middleware: [
>         dynamicSystemPromptMiddleware({
>             systemPromptFunction: (state, runtime) => {
>                 const userRole = runtime?.context?.userRole || "user";
>                 const basePrompt = "You are a helpful assistant.";
> 
>                 if (userRole === "expert") {
>                     return `${basePrompt} Provide detailed technical responses.`;
>                 } else if (userRole === "beginner") {
>                     return `${basePrompt} Explain concepts simply and avoid jargon.`;
>                 }
>                 return basePrompt;
>             }
>         }),
>     ],
> });
> 
> // Use with context
> const result = await agent.invoke(
>     { messages: [{ role: "user", content: "Explain async programming" }] },
>     { context: { userRole: "expert" } }
> );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { z } from "zod";
import { createAgent } from "langchain";
import { dynamicSystemPromptMiddleware } from "langchain/middleware";

const contextSchema = z.object({
    userRole: z.enum(["expert", "beginner"]),
});

const agent = createAgent({
    model: "openai:gpt-4o",
    tools: [...],
    contextSchema,
    middleware: [
        dynamicSystemPromptMiddleware<z.infer<typeof contextSchema>>((state, runtime) => {
            const userRole = runtime.context.userRole || "user";
            const basePrompt = "You are a helpful assistant.";

            if (userRole === "expert") {
                return `${basePrompt} Provide detailed technical responses.`;
            } else if (userRole === "beginner") {
                return `${basePrompt} Explain concepts simply and avoid jargon.`;
            }
            return basePrompt;
        }),
    ],
});

// The system prompt will be set dynamically based on context
const result = await agent.invoke(
    { messages: [{ role: "user", content: "Explain async programming" }] },
    { context: { userRole: "expert" } }
);
```

```
:::

Alternatively, you can adjust the system prompt based on the conversation length:

:::python
```python
from langchain.agents.middleware import DynamicSystemPromptMiddleware

def simple_prompt(state) -> str:
    message_count = len(state["messages"])

    if message_count > 10:
        return "You are in an extended conversation. Be more concise."
    return "You are a helpful assistant."

agent = create_agent(
    model="openai:gpt-4o",
    tools=[search_tool],
    middleware=[DynamicSystemPromptMiddleware(simple_prompt)],

> )

Author: We probably want a better use case?

```
:::

:::js
```typescript

> const agent = createAgent({
>     model: "openai:gpt-4o",
>     tools: [searchTool],
>     middleware: [
>         dynamicSystemPromptMiddleware({
>             systemPromptFunction: (state) => {
>                 const messageCount = state.messages.length;
> 
>                 if (messageCount > 10) {
>                     return "You are in an extended conversation. Be more concise.";
>                 }
>                 return "You are a helpful assistant.";
>             }
>         }),
>     ],
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const agent = createAgent({
    model: "openai:gpt-4o",
    tools: [searchTool],
    middleware: [
        dynamicSystemPromptMiddleware((state) => {
            const messageCount = state.messages.length;

            if (messageCount > 10) {
                return "You are in an extended conversation. Be more concise.";
            }
            return "You are a helpful assistant.";
        }),
    ],
});
```
